This is what I wrote into the EU survey about how to improve the public participation in the EU:

[Full PDF](tino-eu-survey-1.pdf)

# Further Comments

The problems are the stakeholders.  There shouldn't be a money gap.  Companies and people with money have a bigger influence on the commission (and other processes in the EU) than people without money.  Having near to no money is the norm, the majority.  So this isn't democratic.  It isn't social, either.  It is neither transparent nor fair.  I am not talking about experts.  Independent experts are good, as long as there is no bias.  Earning money from some lobby is a bias which must be properly balanced.  Decisions should be based on pure science.  Science, which can be explained to most non-scientists, so they can understand what's going on.  Explaining things, in enough detail, such that most people can easily understand everything, this is the debt we must pay to real transparency, as not doing this properly leads to despotism.

# How would you improve the approach of the European Commission to reach citizens

Turn the process 90 to 180 degrees in all available dimensions (spoiler: There are more than 3).  Shut your doors for stakeholders.  Increase the budget on citizen information at least a billion(!) percent.  Here is how:  Create a well funded, not-for-profit and absolutely independent (so no advertisements in it!) postmodern newspaper which is paying thousands of good journalists to create CC0 (see creativecommons.org) content in a form which is easy to share and mix (they can cooperate with ARTE and similar national news organizations which are called independent by law).  This paper must reach all(!) citizens for absolutely(!) free, independently on how they want to get it (eMail, smart TV, physical paper sheets, Podcast for illiterates, as sign language for the deaf), and independently where they are (i. E. even on the ISS or later perhaps on the Moon or Mars, you get it) or which language they speak.  Organize this paper as a public GIT repository or similar (buzzword: Blockchain), such that it's content stays available for now all times and cannot be manipulated after it was published, ever.  I am not kidding, we are already beyond the point where we can do it (automatic audio description and translation is no fiction, it already starts to work in real time).  This is the only way which could work.  If you don't do this, you will fail.  You (read: We)  are already failing, as it is already 5 minutes after 12 in this respect.
