> I tried to understand what people mean when they talk about "multi-dimensional encryption".
> With no sign of sound solution.
>
> All I found was [Patent US 2016/0142208](http://www.freepatentsonline.com/20160142208.pdf) which claims to invent this.
> But it doesn't.

# Multi-Dimensional Encryption

## Fact Check:

Encryption is something, which can be inverted in a strict ordered sense, which is called decryption.
As, hence, encryption always is enumerable, applying encryption in more than 1 dimension (on the byte order) just makes no sense whatsoever.

So if you ever read something about "Multi-Dimensional Encryption" it's just dumb Marketing-Bubbles!

## Patent US 2016/0142208

See http://www.freepatentsonline.com/20160142208.pdf

### Bug 1: Wrong motivation

The motivation in this patent is, that somebody possibly could crack a key of the domain `256^256`.

> Well, AES256 uses `2^256` bit keys, which is not `256^256`, but leave it as-is.

Well, let's count.  This is a key of the length of `2048` bits, so there are `2^2048` possible keys.

Think about a machine which takes `1aJ` (this is `0.000000000000000001J`)
to decide if a certain key cracks the encryption.  `1Ws` is around `2^60aJ`.
Hence probing all of the `2^2048` keys takes `2^1988Ws`.

There are approx `2^40` galaxies in the Universe with `2^40` stars in each.
With an average power output of a star being `2^110W` this gives us a
joined power of `2^190W` for the complete Universe.

A hundred years have approx `2^32s`, hence the output of the complete Universe
in a lifetime can be expected to be `2^222J` which cracks about `2^282` keys.

> This is why AES256 should be pretty safe, as it takes more than the power output of
> our galaxy to brute force all possible keys in a Lifetime.
>
> **Please keep in mind that there are more sophisticated attacks to AES than brute-forcing all keys!**
>
> Also keep in mind, that, [according to Bruce Schneier, AES256 has a poor keying schedule](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2009/07/another_new_aes.html#c386957) and hence AES128 should be used.
>
> - In this screnario AES128 needs at least `2^68Ws` to brute-force all keys.
> - Compare that to the electrical energy of `2^57Ws` each year we produce on this planet (est. of year 2030!).
>
> It's also very unlikely that you can ever create a machine which only takes `1aJ` to check an AES128 key.

So to brute force all possible `2^2048 keys` in a Lifetime you need at least `2^1786` Universes.

How many Universes do you got in your pocket?


### Bug 2: PRNG instead of safety

Instead of dimensions, the Patent apparently tries to use Polynomes, to generate a key over a GF-8 (GF-8 stands for bytes).

Hence what they "invented" is nothing more than to use a [PRNG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator)
which is based on something like a [CRC algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclic_redundancy_check) as a key generator.

Note that this is already known to be a weak way to create keys, because they have some exploitable proeprties.


### Bug 3: Invertible

What makes absolutely no sense to me is, why the polynome used needs to be invertible "for decryption".

All moden symmetric encryption algorithms like have two operational modes: encryption and decryption.

In this algorithms the key used always is the same on each side.  Hence the name: "symmetric"

In contrasst "asymmetric" encryption algorithms exists, to have two sets of keys,
where it is hard to impossible to calculate the "private" key part out of the "public" one.

> Hence it is important not to have an inversion function for the key at all!

Well, yeah, an invertible polynome is a nice property.

But if you limit the input of the inversion function to GF-8 (as you probably work with bytes)
there are exactly 256 possible inputs for the inverted function, right?

So where's the difference to the `256^256` key length noted at the beginning of the paper?

In contrast this downgrades the possible keys from `256^256` to `256!` which is a lot less!

Also this whole paper looks more like defining a somewhat improved Caesar Chiffre for the key.

> Fun Fact:  The patent itself refers to the Caesar Chiffre as an example.


# Reality

There are symmetric encryption algorithms which have a certain bit length of the key.

